
Hi Ellen:

As I am working through this IDL code, I sometimes have trouble
understanding in detail what IDL will do.

But it suddenly occurred to me that I do have access to a proper IDL
environment in astro at utoronto. The "central" computer in astro is:

    lepus.astro.utoronto.ca

and I have an account there, which seldom gets used. So this morning I
logged into that machine, same credentials as I gave you for
odarragh.astro.utoronto.ca, and just typed "idl".

I was in an interactive IDL session, and thus was able to try some of
the IDL for which I needed clarification of details.

I have attached a little file "IDL_examples" of some simple playing with
IDL commands to test things out. In particular I wanted to ensure that I
understood what findgen and fltarr do, and use them to generate some
arrays similar to the IDL code in the noone_curves .pro files.

I have attached that little file "IDL_examples", although it is probably
not of a lot of use for you.

There is one issue that brings up an important difference between IDL
and Python, and this relates to the issue "call by reference". In IDL,
you can pass the name of an array to a function or procedure where that
array has not been allocated in the procedure calling the function, and
then have the function do the allocation (for example with fltarr which
simply gives you a chunk of floats). On return from the IDL function,
that array named in the call to the function will now point at that
chunk of floats. This is essentially a "call by reference" which you can
do in IDL, Fortran, C (by using pointers), etc. But that is not normally
possible in Python.

But there is a good way around it in Python, where a function can return
not just a single variable, but a whole "tuple" of things.

So in the Python translation of the isoeqlsat, isoraysat, and isomixline
procedures, each of which allocate some float arrays, I just have to
remove those array names from the list of arguments to the function, and
then do

    return (arr1,arr2,..)

where arr1, arr2, ... are the names of the arrays allocated in the
function.

Back in the calling code, one just uses that return to get the arrays as
in:
    (arr1,arr2,...) = isoraysat(... normal args, without the array names)

Then the arrays allocated in the function are now available to the upper
function calling isoraysat(...).

While this is possibly a bit more messy, it is also much clearer in that
one knows what is an input to the function (say isoraysat) and what is
being returned. This is not always so clear in IDL!

- selkcuhc

-- 
Professor Charles C. Dyer
Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics
and Department of Physics
University of Toronto
